In our project,
let's set up our DBContext and DBSets.
So as we mentioned,
we're gonna use SQLite.
So I'm not gonna talk a lot
about databases necessarily, but
SQLite is basically a single file DB.
It is super cool.
It is actually extremely mature, but
not something that you would use in
a production system for
a SaaS product or anything like that.
But for a single purpose,
like an application needs to run,
it needs to track some data, and
you wanna do it in a structured way,
SQLite's a good tool to kinda reach for
in order to do that.
So let's go here.
We're going to close this folder.
And we are going to open
the next part of our exercises,
which is, let's see, we are on 4, 3.
So setting up.
Let's see, querying-sub-resources.
So we're gonna sing,
setting up your first.
Okay, perfect.
You can see that this is our
current project as it sits.
We don't have any DBSet in here yet, but
we do have all of our benefits,
and we still have our repository.
So let's go ahead and change that.
So first thing we need
to do is install SQLite.
This will also install the SQLite
package for Entity Framework Core.
We'll also install the base library.
So you just have to install the one.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
Hit Cmd+P, angle bracket,
and then focus on NuGet.
And, there we go.
Put that there, paste that in.
You can see that this is
the one you wanna install.
There's the core one, but
the one that you wanna install that has
all the real goodies is the top one.
We'll hit plus sign.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
we will see inside of our project file.
We will see that our
EntityFrameworkCore.SQLite project or
package got installed,
which is exactly what we want.
Okay, so let's create our DBContext and
establish our DBSet.
Now, lots of .NETers like to put these
in separate folders like data for
infrastructure.
I'm gonna go ahead and
just put it in the root of the project.
But as I like to say, you do you friend.
I'm gonna do this.
I'm gonna hit these.
I'm just gonna go to
the solution explorer.
I'm gonna click the new file icon.
I'm gonna say I want a new class.
I'm gonna call it AppDBContext,
hit Enter, and we got ourselves a class.
So first things first,
we've got MD framework installed, so
now we just have to reference it.
And the way that we reference that
is to inherit from DBContext.
This is kinda the base requirement
that you need in order to get all of
the goodies that you need
out of entity framework.
So I'm going to do command dot.
I'm gonna use my using statement,
and then I am going to prop, and
then hit Tab to automatically
create a property.
For me, write it all out.
I'm gonna say, DBSet of employee, and
I'm gonna call it the employee's property.
Hit Enter, Tab away.
And if we switch back here,
you see that we've almost got it all.
Last thing that we're gonna
need is just a constructor.
So I'm gonna copy and paste that in, and
we'll talk about this here in a second.
But essentially, this is
the options class that we send into
the base method for DBContext in
order to actually configure it.
This is where we set it up
to actually use SQLite.
We'll get to that in a second.
So, inherits from DBContext,
as we already mentioned.
It has the constructor that
takes in a DBContext options,
which we'll use to configure it to use
SQLite, but we were not gonna do it here.
We'll do it in another
part of the application.
And it has a DBSet employee property.
That is, the collection of employee
entities that are mapped to the employee's
table in the database that
we are going to create.
So pretty good so far.
So let's set up our DBContext in
our dependency ejection pipeline.
So we're gonna go to our
builder.services.AddDBContext.
We're gonna give it a generic type because
it is a method that takes in a generic
type, and it wants the type of
the context that we're adding.
So we're gonna say, AppDBContext.
We're gonna sit here, and then we're
gonna see that this is a method.
We could just do that, but we're not
really giving it enough useful information
in order to know that you're
targeting a SQLite database.
So let's go ahead and configure that.
So we're gonna give it a lambda.
Somebody yesterday asked about callbacks,
like they have in JavaScript, or
passing functions to other
functions in order to use them.
Happens all the time, and
this is another example of it.
So options goes into, and
then we will say, because we've
installed our SQLite package,
we'll say options.UseSqlite.
And then we're just gonna give it the
connection string, which, in this case,
is just gonna be the name of a database.
And we're just gonna use employees.db.
And that's gonna create a file for
us here in a second with our database.
Okay, so good so far.
All right, so next part of the project is
that now we've defined our data context,
our DBContext,
we've defined where we want it to go,
which we want it to go to SQLite,
and use employees.db.
But now we actually have to instruct and
create the tables for
us cuz the Entity Framework
isn't gonna do that for us.
So we have to create what's called
a migration, and here's how you do it.
First, we're gonna add
the Microsoft Entity Framework Core tools,
which will give us some additional
add-ins inside of our .NET CLI.
We'll go ahead and
get the .NET EF CLI tools, and
we're gonna install them globally.
So I'm gonna go back to my command line.
I'm going to clear it up and
then add them here.
All right, so
now we should be able to say, dotnet ef,
and see the unicorn of awesomeness.
And now we're gonna say,
when we go ls and we see TheEmployeeAPI,
we're gonna be able to say
dotnet ef database update.
You're gonna see that it's
actually gonna build the project.
So it's gonna gather that metadata from
the dependency injection pipeline that
we've created in ASP NET Core.
Check this out,
look at all the goodies it did.
It went through, and
it actually created our database.
And you'll see here that we actually have
a database file now called employees.db.
It wasn't there before.
Let's delete it and do it again,
just for fun, if you missed it.
So watch, at the end of this command,
you'll see it appear.
And there it is.
So we've created
a database file in SQLite.
I will point out one thing,
which is that the only thing that
it will create at this point is
an EF migrations history table.
This is where it keeps track
of what migrations have run.
What the heck's a migration?
Let's talk about migrations.
A migration is a file that is used
to alter the database based on
the structure of the DBContext,
as you haven't defined.
So let's go through
a few examples of that.
So let's say,
dotnet ef migrations add init.
We'll go ahead and
add a migration called init.
You will see a folder pop up
over here called migrations.
And you're gonna see that your
initial migration, our init migration,
is created here.
And you're gonna see that because we've
defined our DBSet as employee right here,
that first thing it's gonna do
is create an employee's table.
However, it's also done something else for
us, which is,
it's automatically looked and
saw that on our employee,
right on our employee file here,
right there,
you'll see that it also
detected this list of benefits.
So it automatically knew that, okay,
this is an employee with
a list of employee benefits,
that one-to-many relationship, which is
important and meaningful to databases.
So Entity Framework automatically
went in and detected that and
said, yes, not only are we going
to create employee benefits table,
but we're also going to add
what's called a foreign key.
And it basically says that the employee
ID that's in this employee benefits
table needs to match the employee
ID in the other table.
And it won't allow that record to be
created without a valid employee ID.
So this really gets deep into SQL,
which I can't cover in this course,
that could be an entire,
it's five courses on its own.
But just know that under the hood, what
Entity Framework is doing is it's looking
through your entities and
deciding from there,
what tables need to be created based on
the structure of the entity as it exists?
So, very neat.
One thing I will say about migrations,
I treat them with a lot of respect.
And what I mean by that is that I
will make changes to a data model,
I will look at a migration, and
I will scan that file like a hawk.
And that's because you will occasionally,
and I do,
make a mistake where you've altered a data
structure in a way that you didn't intend
to make some kind of
Entity Framework change.
But Entity Framework has happily said,
well, I think you meant this, and
that gives you the opportunity.
Reviewing the migration really gives you
the opportunity to review for mistakes.
So I highly recommend you always look at
your migration files before you run them.
This one looks pretty standard, and this
is not a production system, of course.
So a couple of other parts of the system.
We have two, a migration that
is created by our tooling.
Automatically, I didn't write a line
of code, all I did was run a command.
It inherits from migration and
it has two methods.
It has an up method and a down method.
Up means upgrade, and
down means downgrade,
in case you need to back out or
undo those changes.
And you can see our down method here
simply drops the tables that are being
created.
So we talked about navigation properties,
which is this, but
I don't think I named it.
So this benefit here is what's
called a navigation property.
And what that means is is that this,
in EF Core parlance, a navigation property
simply means that they can use this
to navigate down to
the employee benefits table.
Correspondingly, you don't have to have
a navigation property be a collection.
A navigation property could also be
the entity of which it's pointing to.
So for instance,
if I add an employee property here,
this nav property can be used
to refer back to the employee.
And we know, based on our data structure,
that an employee
benefit in the database cannot
exist without an employee.
Now, can it in C Sharp?
Of course it can, but
we're modeling our DBContext.
We're modeling the entities in our
DBContext as if they're real database
tables.
But you notice the squiggly lines.
You can't help but see them, right?
Check that out.
So it says, non-nullable property
must contain a non-null value.
Well, you could fix that by
giving a question mark here.
But that doesn't really fix the problem
because that's gonna instruct
Entity Framework Core to say,
this must be nullable.
Is this nullable?
And actually,
you have the ID property is not nullable.
So why is this nullable?
My guess is that I'm not exactly
sure what the behavior would be.
It might actually confuse
it to be framework.
Well, then you could call required here,
and get rid of your compiler error.
It's kind of a little bit weird as well,
because when you're actually constructing
this employee benefits object, you may
not have the full employee object there.
You may just have the employee ID.
So you wanna be able to instantiate
it with just the employee ID,
which DBContext and Entity Framework will
happily try to insert that object as is.
So the best way,
I guess the lesser of all the evils is to
set this equal to null
with an exclamation point.
Now this is really odd.
It's a quirk.
It is an odd quirk and
I can't say that I love it.
But I think of all of
the things that I have to do,
it's the one that I dislike the least.
It's basically saying that I am setting
it to a value, and I am asserting, I,
the developer,
I'm asserting that this thing is not null.
Well, you can see that that is obviously
inherently ridiculous because we
are saying that null is not null, but
it does get rid of the compiler error.
And if you didn't have warnings as errors
is on, it wouldn't even show up at all.
They would just show a squiggly and to
say, hey, this doesn't look right to me.
I prefer warnings as errors when I can,
so I'll just do this to get rid of it.
All right, soapbox over.
Okay, so we added our employee navigation
property to our employee benefits.
So if we're querying this table,
we could then join and
get some properties from this table,
if we wanted to.
And I wanna point out that I didn't make
any technical changes, I didn't make any
technical changes per se in a way
that's significant to Entity Framework.
So I should be able to add a migration
file that just has blankness.
So I'm gonna do that real quick.
I do this a lot in practice because I
do want to assert that I have not made
a change to Entity Framework in a way that
I, as a developer, didn't notice, but
Entity Framework will happily notice for
me.
So I'll do Ctrl+Shift this.
I will create a new migration, so
dotnet ef migrations add meow.
I don't expect this thing to live for
long.
We'll see into the employee API,
and we add our meowgration.
Got it added, we see it here.
We see that it's blank,
which is exactly what we want.
And actually,
Microsoft doesn't even like it.
It says, hey, this violates naming rules.
Well, that's okay,
we're just gonna remove it anyways.
You see this little command,
it says, to undo this action,
use ef migrations remove,
ef migrations remove.
Dotnet ef migrations remove.
Dotnet build to see the error.
It's probably complaining about this.
It's complaining about this.
So this thing that I've
created doesn't even compile.
So I can just capitalize that and
then rerun this.
Or I could straight up, well, it's not
even letting me do that, which is okay.
We're gonna go ahead and just delete this
migration, which is perfectly valid.
I will say that if there are things
in here that this snapshot file
may get updated.
And so you may not want to
just delete it directly.
But if you don't have warnings as errors
on, it probably won't matter anyways.
So we've removed the migration file.
It's all good, it's gone.
And.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Everything
should build as expected,
which is what we want.
Very good, okay.
So, what have we done?
We connected, we created a DBContext.
We connected it to SQLite, we connected
it to our ASP.Net Core project.
And we created a migration file to
actually create our database and
add the tables that we
would expect to be there.
We're gonna do one more thing,
two more things.
We're gonna say dotnet ef database update.
And what that's going to do is it's
gonna read our connection string, and
it's going to go ahead and
run all of our active migrations.
So you can see that we have
our Create Table Employee,
Create Table Employee Benefits,
and we have everything there.
So I mentioned early on at the beginning
of the course that you can install this
thing called SQL tools.
And that was the most convenient thing
that I could find that worked with
Visual Studio Code.
So we are going to install it.
I installed the SQLite provider.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just
gonna call it TheEmployeeAPI.
What I'm gonna do is add a connection.
I really just wanna show you that
those tables there are there inside of
this file.
So I'm gonna hit SELECT FILE.
I'm gonna go here.
I'm gonna double-click and
go on to my employees.db, boom, boom.
I'm gonna say TEST CONNECTION.
Let's see.
I got a, VS Code engine is not supported,
you should enable.
Use node runtime, and then you must
reload VS Code to take effect.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
What's the general rule of thumb when it
comes to deleting migration files?
I know sometimes when you're seeding
data and doing migrations, or might
be a dependency with primary, so I'm just
kinda curious what you might have seen.
I will cover that a little bit more,
that's an excellent question.
And the reason that question is relevant
is because if you're moving from one
database table to another, for
instance, maybe you've expanded it,
or maybe you've changed it all together.
I think you're talking about a migration
where you're literally having to move data
over and
make sure that the system doesn't break.
Am I correct?
Yeah, that has to be handled
on a case by case basis.
We're actually gonna kinda talk about that
a little bit later because our employee
benefits table,
it's gonna get a little upheaval.
But that is an amazing question.
The best answer is, is that it has to
be done on a case by case basis, yeah.
But typically, and
it's gonna require meetings with people,
lots of eyes to make sure that
everybody's on the same page.
Because when you make a database change
in production, it's sometimes difficult,
or sometimes straight
impossible to go back.
And if you cause problems,
then you have to stop and fix them.
Then your Friday nights are ruined,
unless you don't deploy on Friday,
which might be a good rule.